<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-21" epub:type="chapter">
      <hgroup>
        <h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXI.</h2>
        <p epub:type="title">The World's Fair in London</p>
      </hgroup>
      <p epub:type="bridgehead">My Contribution to the Great Exhibition.⁠—Difficulty with the American Superintendent.⁠—Happy Release.⁠—The Great Crowd.⁠—A Call from the Queen.⁠—Medal Awarded to Me.</p>
			<p>I have already mentioned that the first idea which suggested to me the plan of going to England, was to exhibit, at the Great World’s Fair, in London, some of the best specimens of our black walnut lumber, in the hope that it might lead to some sales in England. For this purpose I selected some of the best boards out of the cargo which I had brought to Boston, which <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Chickering was kind enough to have properly packed in boxes, and sent to England in the American ship which carried the American products for exhibition. The boards which I selected were four in<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_188">[Pg 188]</a></span> number, excellent specimens, about seven feet in length and four feet in width, of beautiful grain and texture. On their arrival in England, I had them planed and perfectly polished, in French style, so that they actually shone like a mirror.</p>
			<p>The history of my connection with the World’s Fair is a little amusing. Because my boards happened to be carried over in the American ship, the superintendent of the American Department, who was from Boston, (I think his name was Riddle), insisted that my lumber should be exhibited in the American department. To this I objected. I was a citizen of Canada, and my boards were from Canada, and there was an apartment of the building appropriated to Canadian products. I therefore insisted that my boards should be removed from the American Department, to the Canadian. But, said the American, “You cannot do it. All these things are under my control. You can exhibit what belongs to you if you please, but not a single thing here must be moved an inch without my consent.”</p>
			<p>
				<span class="pagenum">
					<a id="Page_189">[Pg 189]</a>
				</span>
			</p>
			<p>This was rather a damper to me. I thought his position was rather absurd, but how to move him or my boards seemed just then beyond my control.</p>
			<p>A happy thought, however, occurred to me. Thought I, if this Yankee wants to retain my furniture, the world shall know who it belongs to. I accordingly hired a painter to paint in good large white letters on the tops of my boards: “<span class="smcap">This is the product of the industry of a Fugitive Slave from the United States, whose residence is Dawn, Canada</span>.” This was done early in the morning. In due time the American superintendent came around, and found me at my post. The gaze of astonishment with which he read my inscription, was laughable to witness. His face was black as a thundercloud. “Look here, Sir,” said he; “What, under heaven, have you got up there?”⁠—“O, that is only a little information to let the people know who I am.”⁠—“But don’t you know better than that. Do you suppose I am going to have that insult up there?” The English<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_190">[Pg 190]</a></span> gentlemen began to gather around, chuckling with half-suppressed delight, to see the wrath of the Yankee. This only added fuel to the fire. “Well, Sir,” said he, “do you suppose I am going to bring that stuff across the Atlantic for nothing?”⁠—“I have never asked you to bring it for nothing. I am ready to pay you, and have been from the beginning.”⁠—“Well, Sir, you may take it away, and carry it where you please.”⁠—“O,” said I, “I think, as you wanted it very much, I will not disturb it. You can have it now.”⁠—“No, Sir; take it away!”⁠—“I beg your pardon, Sir,” said I, “when I wanted to remove it you would not allow it, and now, for all me, it shall remain.” In the meantime the crowd enjoyed it and so did I. The result was, that by the next day the boards were removed to their proper place at no expense to me, and no bill was ever presented against me for carrying the lumber across the Atlantic.</p>
			<p>I may be permitted to say that in that immense exhibition, my humble contribution received its due share of attention. Many conversations<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_191">[Pg 191]</a></span> did I have with individuals of that almost innumerable multitude from every nation under heaven. Perhaps my complexion attracted attention, but nearly all who passed, paused to look at me, and at themselves as reflected in my large black walnut mirrors.</p>
			<p>Among others the Queen of England, Victoria, preceded by her guide, and attended by her cortége, paused to view me and my property. I uncovered my head and saluted her as respectfully as I could, and she was pleased with perfect grace to return my salutation. “Is he indeed a fugitive slave?” I heard her inquire; and the answer was, “He is indeed, and that is his work.”</p>
			<p>But notwithstanding such pleasant occurrences, the time wore heavily away. The immense crowd, kept in as perfect order as a single family, became wearisome to me, and I was not sorry, as related in a preceding chapter, to return to Canada, leaving my boards on exhibition.</p>
			<p>On going again to England the exhibition was still in progress. There seemed no diminution<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_192">[Pg 192]</a></span> of the crowd. Like the waters of the great Mississippi, the channel was still full, though the individuals were changed.</p>
			<p>But among all the exhibitors from every nation in Europe, and from Asia, and America, and the Isles of the Sea, there was not a single black man but myself. There were negroes there from Africa, brought to be exhibited, but no exhibitors but myself. Though my condition was wonderfully changed from what it was in my childhood and youth, yet it was a little saddening to reflect that my people were not more largely represented there. The time will yet come, I trust, when such a state of things will no longer exist.</p>
			<p>At the close of the exhibition, on my return to Canada, I received from England a large quarto bound volume containing a full description of all the objects presented at the exhibition, the names of officers of all the committees, juries, exhibitors, prizes, <abbr>etc.</abbr>, <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr> Among others I found my own name recorded; and there were in addition awarded to me a bronze medal, a beautiful picture of the Queen and<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_193">[Pg 193]</a></span> royal family, of the size of life, and several other objects of interest.</p>
			<p>These things I greatly prize. After having fully succeeded in my mission to England, having released myself from the voluntarily-assumed debt in behalf of the manual-labor school, and having received these testimonials of honor, I returned home to Canada, contented and happy. While in England I was permitted to enjoy some excellent opportunities to witness its best society, which I propose to relate in the following chapter.</p>
			<hr class="chap"/>
			<p>
				<span class="pagenum">
					<a id="Page_194">[Pg 194]</a>
				</span>
			</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
