<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-22" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>
				<a id="CHAPTER_XXII">CHAPTER XXII.</a>
				<br/>
				<br/>
				<small>VISITS TO THE RAGGED SCHOOLS.</small>
			</h2>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p>
					<small>SPEECH AT SUNDAY SCHOOL ANNIVERSARY.⁠—INTERVIEW WITH LORD GREY.⁠—INTERVIEW WITH THE ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY, AND DINNER WITH LORD JOHN RUSSELL, THE GREAT EVENTS OF MY LIFE.</small>
				</p>
			</div>
			<p>While in England I was frequently called upon to speak at public meetings of various kinds. I was deeply interested in the Ragged School enterprise, and frequently addressed the schools, and also public meetings held in their behalf. I spent two, months of May, in that country, and attended many of the great anniversaries, and was called upon to speak at many of them. On several occasions I did what I could to make known the true condition of slaves, in Exeter Hall and other places. On one occasion, I recollect, an eminent man from Pennsylvania, was addressing the anniversary<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_195">[Pg 195]</a></span> of a Sabbath School Union, who boasted of the great benefits of Sunday Schools in the United States, and asserted that all classes indiscriminately enjoyed their blessings. I felt bound to contradict him, and after putting to the speaker a few questions which he stammeringly answered, I told the immense meeting that in the Southern States, the great body of the colored people were almost entirely neglected, and in many places they were excluded altogether; and that even in the most of the Northern States, the great mass of the colored children were not sought out and gathered into Sunday Schools. This created some little storm, but my own personal observation and experience carried conviction to the people.</p>
			<p>Being thus introduced to the public, I became well acquainted with many of the leading men of England. Lord Grey made a proposition to me, which, if circumstances had permitted, I should have been glad to attempt. It was to go to India and there superintend some great efforts made by the government<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_196">[Pg 196]</a></span> to introduce the culture of cotton on the American plan. He promised to me an appointment to an office, and a good salary. Had it not been for my warm interest in my Canadian enterprise, I should have accepted his proposal.</p>
			<p>One of the most pleasing incidents for me now to look back upon, was a long interview which I was permitted to enjoy with the Archbishop of Canterbury. The elevated social position of this man, the highest beneath the crown, is well known to all those acquainted with English society. Samuel Gurney, the noted philanthropist, introduced me, by a note and his family card, to his grace, the archbishop. He received me kindly in his palace. I immediately entered upon a conversation with him, upon the condition of my people, and the plans I had in view. He expressed the strongest interest in me, and after about a half hour’s conversation he inquired, “At what university, Sir, did you graduate?” “I graduated, your grace,” said I in reply, “at the university of adversity.” “The university of adversity,”<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_197">[Pg 197]</a></span> said he, looking up with astonishment; “where is that?” I saw his surprise, and explained. “It was my lot, your grace,” said I, “to be born a slave, and to pass my boyhood and all the former part of my life as a slave. I never entered a school, never read the Bible in my youth, and received all of my training under the most adverse circumstances. This is what I meant by graduating in the university of adversity.” “I understand you, Sir,” said he. “But is it possible that you are not a scholar?” “I am not,” said I. “But I should never have suspected that you were not a liberally educated man. I have heard many negroes talk, but have never seen one that could use such language as you. Will you tell me, Sir, how you learned our language?” I then explained to him, as well as I could, my early life; that it had always been my custom to observe good speakers, and to imitate only those who seemed to speak most correctly. “It is astonishing,” said the archbishop. “And is it possible that you were brought up ignorant of religion? How did you attain to the<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_198">[Pg 198]</a></span> knowledge of Christ?” I explained to him, in reply, that a poor ignorant slave mother had taught me to say the Lord’s Prayer, though I did not know then how, truly, to pray. “And how were you led to a better knowledge of the Saviour?” I answered that it was by the hearing of the Gospel preached. He then asked me to repeat the text, and to explain all the circumstances. I told him of the first sermon I heard, of the text, “He, by the grace of God, tasted death for every man.” “A beautiful text was that,” said the archbishop, and so affected was he by my simple story that he shed tears freely.</p>
			<p>I had been told by Samuel Gurney that perhaps the archbishop would give me an interview of a quarter of an hour; I glanced at the clock and found that I had already been there an hour and a half, and arose to depart. He followed me to the door, and begged of me if ever I came to England to call and see him again; and shaking hands affectionately with me, while the tears trembled in his eyes, he put into my hands graciously five golden sovereigns,<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_199">[Pg 199]</a></span> (about twenty-five dollars,) and bade me adieu. I have always esteemed him as a warm-hearted Christian.</p>
			<p>Thus ended the interview with the venerable Archbishop of England. On my second visit to England, I had an invitation, in company with a large number of Sabbath School Teachers, to spend a day on the beautiful grounds of Lord John Russell, then Prime Minister of England. His magnificent park, filled with deer, of all colors, and from all climes, and sleek hares, which the poet <span class="smcap">Cowper</span> would have envied, with numberless birds, whose plumage rivalled the rainbow in gorgeous colors, together with the choicest specimens of the finny tribe, sporting in their native element, drew from me the involuntary exclamation: “O, how different the condition of these happy, sportive, joyful, creatures, from what was once my own condition, and what is now the lot of millions of my colored brethren in America!” This occupancy of the elegant grounds of England’s Prime Minister, for the day, by a party of Sabbath School Teachers, was what we<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_200">[Pg 200]</a></span> should call, in America, a pic-nic, with this difference, that, instead of each teacher providing his own cakes, and pies, and fruit, they were furnished by men and women, who were allowed to come on to the grounds, with every variety of choice eatables for sale. After strolling over these charming grounds, enjoying the beautiful scenery, and the happy gambols of the brute creation, and the conversation of the many intelligent men and women, with whom we came in contact, we were most unexpectedly, at five o’clock, sent for to visit the elegant mansion of the proprietor. There we found what I will call a surprise party, or at any rate, we were taken by surprise, for we were ushered, three hundred of us at least, into a spacious dining hall, whose dimensions could not have been less than one hundred feet by sixty, and here were tables, groaning under every article of luxury for the palate, which England could supply, and to this bountiful repast we were all made welcome. I was invited to take the head of the table; I never felt so highly honored. The blessing was invoked by singing the two following verses.</p>
			<p>
				<span class="pagenum">
					<a id="Page_201">[Pg 201]</a>
				</span>
			</p>
			<div class="poetry-container">
				<div class="poem">
					<div class="stanza">
						<span class="i0">“Be present at our table, Lord,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">Be here and everywhere adored:<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">These creatures bless,<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">And grant that we may feast<br/></span>
						<span class="i0">In Paradise with thee!”<br/></span>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
			<p>After dinner, various toasts were proposed, on various subjects, and in my humble way I offered the following:</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p>“First to England. Honor to the brave, freedom to the Slave, success to British emancipation. God bless the Queen!”</p>
			</div>
			<p>Cheers and laughter followed the reading of this toast, succeeded by the usual English exclamations, “<em>Up, up, up again!</em>” I again arose and gave, To our most Sovereign Lady, the Queen:</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p>“May she have a long life, and a happy death. May she reign in righteousness, and rule in love!”</p>
			</div>
			<p>And to her illustrious consort, Prince Albert:</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p>“May he have peace at home, pleasure abroad, love his Queen, and serve the Lord!”</p>
			</div>
			<p>Among the distinguished persons who made<span class="pagenum"><a id="Page_202">[Pg 202]</a></span> speeches on this joyous occasion, I will mention the names of Rev. William Brock, Hon. Samuel M. Peto, and a Mr. Bess, brother-in-law of Mr. Peto, with his accomplished and beautiful lady. Thus ended one of the pleasantest days of my life.</p>
			<hr class="chap"/>
			<p>
				<span class="pagenum">
					<a id="Page_203">[Pg 203]</a>
				</span>
			</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
